Welcome back.
Let's start with the first one adding a last year method to our data object this one.
We can just simply do date dot prototype.
So these are the properties that this data object will have access to.
And we'll say well we want to add last year to it.
It doesn't exist yet but I'm going to define it right here and this is going to be a function that well
what should I do.
It should return the year.
Right now this is where it might have been a little tricky.
How can we refer to this part of the data that is we want to add last year as a method here to whatever
calls us.
Remember that key word that I talked about that asks who called me that refers to the object that called
the method if he guessed this your correct.
This will refer to whatever gets called whatevers to the left of the dot so that if I do this and use
get full year which is an actual method that we get on the date and simply do minus one to get last
year.
This should work.
Let's hit run and see what happens and let's comment.
This second part out and hit run and look at that eighteen ninety nine we got that right.
If we just do today's date and run.
There you go.
Now you know what year this course was recorded in.
And if I go back and let's just for fun do 17 or less to nineteen eighty eight.
All right.
Last year was nineteen eighty seven.
Not bad.
Now if I changed this to an arrow function if I do error function here and I run this Oh I get an error
and why is that.
This may have got a few of you remember with the arrow function we have this lexical early scoped that
is if I canceled our log this and I run well repo won't let me do it.
So let's do it in our console.
This is referring to the actual function that called us right.
Because we're lexical e scoped let's refresh that.
So this is one of those rare cases that we want this to be determined at call time when we actually
run this function.
Remember the dynamic scope nature of the this keyword in this case.
We want to keep that.
I told you this was a little tricky.
What about the next one.
This one is.
Well if you got this one then you may have gotten this one as well.
It's a little trickier though let's figure out how to do this in here.
I wanted to be able to run this method map on one two three so we can modify it on the array prototype.
So the constructor array I can just say array dot prototype dot map which is an existing method but
I'm going to modify it and actually overwrite the math function and this map function won't receive
any parameters.
I mean if we want to change any of the functionality we can definitely do it but for now we will do
this will create an array and we'll do a loop over well the array that we give it.
Right.
We don't want to loop over the array that we just created.
We want to loop over whatever we get and remember to the left of the dot.
That's this.
So whatever calls us that's what we want to loop over in this case because if I just do a map function
well we're overriding the math function.
So we can't really use that.
Let's just do a basic for loop.
We can do.
Let I equals zero.
And we're going to keep going until I is less then what should it be.
This dot length.
That is the length of whatever calls us and then we'll just do I plus plus and in here we can just finally
and let's make this a little bit Baker There you go.
And here we'll just a ray dot push to this new Array that we've created the this high so that is whatever
this is the index of.
So the first time around it'll be index of 0 which is one index of 1 which is to index of 2 which is
3.
And we're simply going to add to this the map right over here so we're just contaminating the string
because of type caution in JavaScript.
This is going to be turned well into a string for us.
And because this is an expression we're going to wrap this in curly brackets.
That's not how we wrap it in curly brackets like that.
So it evaluates this before we console log it so that if I run this now well I get undefined because
we don't return anything from here.
So let's return the array that we've created.
If I run this a look at that it's working and it's important to remember that map.
If you go look at how map is implemented it returns a new array like this.
We don't modify the existing array.
We well we create a new one just like we did here and there we have it.
We have one two three literally mapped.
Very very cool.
Now what's an issue with doing things like this Isaac came and imagine that's pretty dangerous right.
What if somebody just modifies the actual functionality of map and all the code in our project that
uses map is now well destroyed.
Does something weird like actually throwing a map next to the item so you want to be really careful
of this and you should never really modify the existing methods that we have but you must be asking
yourself.
Andre I haven't really seen this anymore.
Like do we even use this.
How come I've never seen prototype being used.
And as we'll find out in the object oriented part of the course this array dot prototype dot map way
of creating methods and doing inheritance.
Well it's a little bit old school.
There's newer cleaner way of doing this using things like the class keyword which we're gonna get into.
And all this headache that I've been bothering you with with the prototype and the underscore underscore
prototype and all that difficult stuff is going to become really really simple if you've gotten this
far trust me things are going to get much much simpler.
But I hope I show you some of the power of prototype inheritance because in the next part well we're
going to clean all this up so for now take a break and I'll see you in the next one Bye.